\section{Related work}
\label{sec:related}

% Key aspects of SD/HP: graph, opinion space, elections, modeling (not
% forecasting)

% No opinion space
In many approaches to modeling elections, voters' attitudes towards the parties
comprises merely a valence and possibly a magnitude, rather than involving a
more complex amalgamation of issue positions. The original binary voter model,
for example, utilized only a single ``issue'' upon which an individual could
hold a position.\cite{holley_ergodic_1975,clifford_model_1973}. Even in
Kottonau and Paul-Wohstl's much more recent seminal
work\cite{kottonau_simulating_2004}, citizens maintain a ``mental accounting''
of only a single variable over the course of an election season -- namely,
which of the two parties they favor. The campaigns for these parties then
attempt to optimize their advertising resources to influence would-be voters at
opportune times. Burke and Searle\cite{burke_quantitatively_2022} followed
Sobkowicz's emotion/information/opinion (E/I/O)
approach\cite{sobkowicz_quantitative_2016} in making agents' mental states more
complex and realistic: in addition to holding a certain opinion about a party
(or candidate), an agent is, at any moment, in either a ``calm'' or
``agitated'' state, which controls how they influence and are influenced by
other agents (and by campaign messaging). Here, too, the object of analysis is
a single ``issue'' (pro party A or B), not an array of them.

Our model, in contrast to all of these, the main levers available to a campaign
are the party's issue positions, which they can adjust in an attempt to woo
voters.

% Election forecasting
Recently, Gao \textit{et al}\cite{gao_forecasting_2022} have presented a
promising approach to election forecasting. They combine current demographic
attributes of the population with historical results of past election outcomes
in order to determine how much each attribute is likely to influence voters,
and in which direction. This is very different from our model, both in purpose
(actually forecasting upcoming elections, rather than exploring ``what if?''
voting strategy scenarios) and in approach (the agents in
\cite{gao_forecasting_2022} do not influence one another on a social network.)

The emotion/information/opinion (E/I/O) approach, utilized by both
\cite{sobkowicz_quantitative_2016} and, more recently,
\cite{burke_quantitatively_2022}, can lead to less rigidity in model outcomes
and perhaps even conditions conducive to legitimate third parties coming into
play.
